The last tool I want to show you is called 7-Zip.
It's normally used to compress files, make them smaller.
You can also use it to encrypt.
Let me show you.
I created a folder, just called Files.
I already have downloaded and installed 7-Zip,
which is freely available.
To encrypt, all I need to do is I right-click on the folder, "Add to archive".
The 7-Zip application will then open,
and I can name the archive.
I can change the compression rate.
This is really what I want to show you,
is I can now password protect this file.
I can call it whatever I want.
This is just a very simple way to encrypt files using the AES-256 encryption method.
This is the advanced encryption standard
from the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
and it has a 256-bit length,
meaning it's pretty strong encryption,
fairly hard to crack.
This is a very easy way though to encrypt files.
I'll then send the encrypted file over the Internet,
say through email, and then give the person the password through another means.
Consider using 7-Zip just as
an easy way to use encryption of files that may contain some sensitive data.
Once I click "OK",
there's now an encrypted folder on my desktop, that's an archive.
To extract the folder's contents,
I'll have to put in the password.
There's one last tool.
I'd be remiss if I didn't talk to you about,
because it's the number one tool used by hackers worldwide,
both the white hat good type,
black hat bad type.
It's simply Google.
We're always googling for answers.
You can't know everything,
but it's more important to know where to find information.
Google is very powerful in terms of what it can find across the Internet.
One part I want to show you is the advanced search within Google,
google.com/advanced_search, where now you can search
for all word or an exact phrase, or any word.
You can change language,
look for a particular region on a specific domain.
If I wanted to find everything about cybersecurity at udacity.com,
click the "Advanced Search",
and this is now showing me just the results at Udacity for cybersecurity.
No other websites.
The Google Advanced Search should be on one of the top sites you visit daily,
as part of your hacking lifecycle,
and as you're expanding your knowledge of cybersecurity.